Asking Questions
----------------

When you run into issues with the projects, you are more than welcome to ask on Piazza (hopefully saving you a trip to office hours). However, providing assistance on the projects through Piazza can sometimes be challenging, since we do not have access to your computer and cannot debug the issue interactively with you. We have compiled below a list of guidelines and tips on how to ask effective questions on Piazza (i.e., how to ask a question in such a way that we can help you arrive at a solution as quickly as possible):

* Before posting a question on Piazza, check whether it has already been answered in a previous post. We will usually "pin" issues that multiple students have reported, so make sure you check those out first (the pinned posts appear at the top of left sidebar, under "Pinned"). If you don't find anything useful, try using Piazza's search functionality.

* Make sure you're asking an actual question. You need to tell us about a *specific* issue you're encountering, and why you're stuck on it (e.g., you are not getting the expected result, the tests are failing in a way you do not understand, etc.). Writing a post that says "I can't get this test to work, I've pushed my code. Please look at it." is not a question! If you find it challenging to distill the issue you're encountering into a specific question, then office hours may be a better place to get help.

* Piazza has a mechanism that allows you to ask a private question, which will be seen only by the instructors and teaching assistants. This mechanism should be used only to ask questions that relate uniquely to you (e.g., you need to notify us of a family/medical emergency, etc.)

  In general, all questions about the projects, course logistics, etc. should be asked publicly. If you ask such a question privately, we will not answer it: we will ask you to ask it publicly, and will answer it once you do. This way, everyone can benefit from the answer to the question and, if someone runs into the same issue you do, we can refer them to the answer we provided in your post.

* Piazza also allows students to post anonymously, but please note that *anonymous posts are not allowed in this class* (Piazza won't let us turn off anonymous posting entirely so, if you write an anonymous post you will get a reminder to post your question non-anonymously). In a real software project, you would not ordinarily be able to ask questions anonymously to other developers, and we want you to become comfortable sharing your questions and thoughts with your classmates without hiding behind a veil of anonymity.

  Please note that the course staff will answer all questions respectfully and in a non-judgmental manner. If another student replies to your question in a rude or offensive way, or in any way that makes you feel uncomfortable or unwelcome, we will explain to them why their behaviour is not acceptable and will admonish them if it reoccurs (if you feel like the course staff did not address instances of inappropriate behaviour, please do not hesitate to let us know via a private Piazza post; we take all such reports very seriously).

* It will be much easier for us to help you if we are able to reproduce the exact issue you are encountering (i.e., when we run your code, we must be able to observe the exact same issue you're encountering). So, **make sure you push your code to the Git server**, and include a detailed description of the exact chain of events that lead to the issue you're encountering (are you testing your IRC server with a specific command? if so, what are the commands that lead to that issue? does the issue come up when you run a test? etc.). If something is "wrong", please describe in what way it seems wrong to you. For example, were you expecting a particular output but got a different one? Is a piece of code behaving in a way you were not expecting? etc. It can be useful to tell us what you were expecting the code to do, and what you encountered instead.

* If you encounter an error message (or any other unexpected output), please make sure you include the **full and unabridged** error message (or unexpected output). Summarizing the message (e.g., "The test says something about an unexpected sequence number") makes it harder for us to figure out what the issue is. In general, the more information you throw at us, the easier it will be for us to help you. 

* Never post your code in Piazza. If you need us to look at your code, just push it to the Git server and we will look at it there.

* Do not post screenshots of terminal output. Screenshots are not searchable, which means that other students who get the same output will not be able to find posts that mentioned that output (if it was posted as a screenshot). Furthermore, we may want to copy-paste that output somewhere else, which is not possible if you post a screenshot. To copy something on the terminal, just select it (the same way you would do in a word processor: click, and then drag until the end of the output) and press Control-Shift-C. When pasting the output on Piazza, use the "code" formatting to ensure the output displays with the same font as in the terminal.

  If you are on a VM, you should be able to copy-paste from the VM to your computer. However, if this doesn't work, just open a browser inside the VM, and go to Piazza there. You should be able to copy from the Terminal and into the browser because they're both in the same machine. 

* You should also tell us what machine you're on: a VM, on a Computer Science lab machine, or another machine (if so, let us know the operating system type and version). Please note that, if you're not using a VM or a CS lab machine, we may not be able to help you (please see "Supported software environments" in the `Projects <projects.html>`_ page).

* Use "followup discussions" in Piazza posts only for followup questions/issues related to that Piazza post. If you have a new question, please write a new post for it. That way, if others have that same question, it will be easier for them to find your post (and our answer to it), instead of having to dig through the followup discussions of unrelated posts.

